All right, so let's talk about
the final type of comprehension,
which is generator comprehension.
Now, in order to understand
the generators, this is your first
preview of understanding them.
And it's easy, but you need
to understand what happens
behind the scene in front.
If I just give you any example,
there is no such example that
I have, which has millions
of record that I can show you.
Okay, this one is
faster, this one is not.
Generators are used just and just
for saving the memory, which is not
just, it is a really huge aspect.
Most of the Python programs
that you see are not really
caring much about the memory.
But if you're a good
software engineer, you do
really care about memory.
Most of the Python engineers, they
work with the heavy machines, which
has around, 64 GBs of RAM or 128 GBs
of RAM or probably works in the GPU.
But if your program is efficient,
it can do a lot of job
and make Python functions faster.
It's already a slow language, but if
we can do something about the memory
and make it more faster,
that is what exactly generator does.
The syntax is pretty
easy, you will love that.
But just get this, this is used
entirely for saving the memory.
You don't see them here
in these small examples.
But remember, if you want
to save memory in some of the cases,
then it's the best thing.
So again, it's a super easy one.
So we have the final one here.
Remember generators?
Yep, that's what we are
talking about, generator.
So if I go ahead and wrap this up,
so how does the syntax look like?
And you'll be surprised.
Exactly.
Same.
The only thing that changes
in this is they start with
parenthesis and that is it.
That is your generator expression for
item in iterable, if condition or
for loop or whatever you want to do.
Further, you can go
ahead and do that.
Can we go ahead and take
an example of this one?
Surely.
First I'll tell you how it
works actually and what's
the difference between them?
So you might have seen, for
example, I can just use the square
brackets and can get exactly
same result for X, in, items.
And there is another case that
we have, or we have to put
an expression X for x in items.
So this is our first
case that we have seen.
And there is another one
which actually goes through
with just like this.
So apart from these parentheses,
technically there is no
difference between, this piece
of code and this piece of code.
But the only difference is this piece
of code actually makes the entire
list in the memory it generates
it immediately and everything
is stored in the memory.
On the other hand, this one actually,
gives you one item at a time.
This is like a stream.
So always remember, this thing,
is going to make a list
or make entire list, in memory.
So this is the part where we go
with the square brackets.
So this is part for this.
And this one is more like a stream.
So all of your memory is
not clogged at once.
It actually gives you a constant
flow of the things as you require
them or as you process them.
Let me go ahead and show
you how it actually works.
It's actually super easy example,
don't you worry on that part.
So I'll take you onto the screen.
We'll close all of this.
And this, is probably last video
in this section, hopefully.
And this one is generator compre py.
All right, so let's just
say we have a, daily sales.
And this could be like
hundreds of value.
We cannot write hundreds
of values as of now.
I know we can use range, but I
don't want to go with that.
So let's just say we have
the daily sales and we'll
have some of the values.
So let's just say we have 5, 10, 12,
7, 3.
What else you can have?
Let's just say 8, 9, 15.
You can have more values, but let's
just say we have hundreds of values.
In this case, you want to find out
that what was the total cup sold?
One by one.
So we want to find out, analyze that,
and only want to figure out if
the sale is above the 5.5rupees.
So any sale which is above 5 rupees,
I want to calculate the sum of that.
So can we find them out?
I guess yes, that is super easy.
So you want to find out total cups,
but that are, above three rupees.
So how can we do that?
You, can just go ahead
and make it like this.
Hey, I want a list comprehension,
something like that.
But I'll show you
a neat trick for that.
Let's go with
the generator comprehension.
In this one we'll go with underscore
again, just like a syntax.
So for sale in daily,
sales, we know this part.
We can use conditions pretty easy.
We'll call this one as sale,
which is going to be above 5.
So exactly the same syntax.
And what goes into this one?
This empty one here?
Of course, you get the idea
that we get the sale.
Now this will feel like that.
Okay, we got all the values
up here just like this.
First of all, let's print this.
Let's see what actually
goes inside this.
This will actually probably surprise.
I'll just go ahead
and say Total Cups.
Yep, that's the one I want
and I want to see the result.
All right, so no big deal.
Python 3,04 and get like this.
So we get this notice here
generator object.
So it's not usable right now.
Generator objects need
to be consumed since they are
streaming this one by one.
If I go ahead and change this,
that, hey, I will just go ahead
and use this, this will be a whole
different story altogether.
Now notice here, if I go ahead
and run this, this gives you
a list directly and that is.
Okay, that's exactly what I want.
And now further through this
list I have to go through with
the values I have to say that,
okay, let's create a global variable
which says total sum.
If I want to know the sale addition
of all of this, then loop
through it all that or probably
can use a comprehension again.
But what the generator allows you
to do is if I go back and turn
this up into parenthesis I can
use inbuilt methods like filter.
There's one method which is sum.
You provide a iterable to it and it
automatically makes the sum of it.
And this will be a memory
efficient operation because you're
not just throwing all the memory
of hundreds of this.
The sum is given one by one.
So automatically the stream
of values are given to it.
And once you actually do this,
what you're going to notice we get
the result exactly what we want.
But this is a memory
efficient operation.
All right, so the whole point of
teaching you or giving you a glimpse
of generator is so that you
understand what happens behind the
scene and you also get to know about
a little bit on the sum operation
which we can do.
The sum operation can be done
on variety of other things as well.
But what we have done here is
a very memory efficient code.
This is very rare to see
that somebody writes that.
But eventually you'll see that if
you work really good in the python,
you, you will write similar
code out a similar piece of code.
That is it for this video.
Hope you've enjoyed this section.
Pretty fun, a little bit new,
little scary, but we have learned
a lot and that's kind
of a mixed feeling that we get.
That is it for this video.
Let's catch up in the next one.
Don't forget to rate.